docs/week-2-implementation-plan.md, before:

# Week 2 Implementation Plan - Knowledge Base & RAG Setup
## Rafael Hidalgo - Relational Life Practice Platform

**Planning Date**: May 24, 2025  
**Target Week**: Week 2 of 4-week MVP  
**Phase**: Core Development - RAG Implementation

---

## 🎯 **Week 2 Objectives**

### **Primary Deliverables**
1. **Working RAG System** with Terry Real content integration
2. **Basic AI Conversation Engine** for relationship skill practice
3. **Technical Architecture Documentation** (TSD - Technical Specification Document)
4. **User Authentication System** with secure onboarding flow
5. **First Learning Module** with integrated AI practice

### **Success Criteria**
- [ ] AI can discuss RLT concepts using Terry Real's methodology
- [ ] User can signup, access content, and practice with AI
- [ ] Technical architecture documented for future development
- [ ] Foundation ready for Week 3 UX development

---

## 📋 **Daily Task Breakdown**

### **Monday: RAG Foundation & Content Acquisition**

#### **Morning (4 hours): Terry Real Corpus Setup**
**Task 1: Content Acquisition** (2 hours)
- [ ] Purchase digital copies of Terry Real's books:
  - "The New Rules of Marriage" 
  - "Us: Getting Past You & Me to Build a More Loving Relationship"
  - "Fierce Intimacy: Standing Up to One Another with Love"
- [ ] Research copyright compliance and fair use guidelines
- [ ] Document legal approach and attribution strategy

**Task 2: Content Processing Plan** (2 hours)  
- [ ] Analyze book structure and key concepts
- [ ] Create content extraction strategy (manual vs. OCR vs. API)
- [ ] Plan knowledge base organization and chunking approach
- [ ] Design RAG retrieval strategy for relationship scenarios

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): Technical Architecture**
**Task 3: Technology Stack Finalization** (2 hours)
- [ ] Choose vector database (Pinecone vs. Weaviate vs. Chroma)
- [ ] Select AI provider and model (OpenAI GPT-4 vs. Claude vs. local)
- [ ] Plan database schema for users, conversations, progress
- [ ] Document technology choices and rationale

**Task 4: Development Environment Setup** (2 hours)
- [ ] Initialize Next.js project with TypeScript
- [ ] Configure database connections and environment variables
- [ ] Set up development, staging, and production environments
- [ ] Create initial project structure and folder organization

### **Tuesday: RAG Implementation Core**

#### **Morning (4 hours): Vector Database & Embeddings**
**Task 1: Vector Database Setup** (2 hours)
- [ ] Configure chosen vector database service
- [ ] Create embedding pipeline for text content
- [ ] Test embedding generation and storage
- [ ] Verify retrieval functionality with sample queries

**Task 2: Content Ingestion Pipeline** (2 hours)
- [ ] Build content processing scripts for Terry Real books
- [ ] Create chunking strategy for optimal retrieval
- [ ] Generate embeddings for processed content
- [ ] Store content with metadata (source, chapter, concept)

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): RAG Query System**
**Task 3: Retrieval System** (2 hours)
- [ ] Implement semantic search functionality
- [ ] Test query relevance and ranking
- [ ] Optimize retrieval parameters for relationship content
- [ ] Create fallback strategies for unclear queries

**Task 4: Context Integration** (2 hours)
- [ ] Build context assembly for AI prompts
- [ ] Design prompt templates for RLT concepts
- [ ] Test context window optimization
- [ ] Validate response quality with sample scenarios

### **Wednesday: AI Conversation Engine**

#### **Morning (4 hours): Conversational AI Foundation**
**Task 1: AI Integration** (2 hours)
- [ ] Configure AI provider API (OpenAI/Claude)
- [ ] Implement conversation management system
- [ ] Create system prompts for RLT roleplay scenarios
- [ ] Test basic conversation flow and response quality

**Task 2: Safety & Ethics Layer** (2 hours)
- [ ] Implement crisis detection keywords and patterns
- [ ] Create safety response templates and resource referrals
- [ ] Build content filtering for inappropriate conversations
- [ ] Test safety protocols with edge case scenarios

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): Conversation Intelligence**
**Task 3: Context Management** (2 hours)
- [ ] Build conversation memory and context tracking
- [ ] Implement user preference learning
- [ ] Create conversation history storage and retrieval
- [ ] Test multi-turn conversation coherence

**Task 4: RLT Scenario Generation** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create scenario templates for relationship practice
- [ ] Build dynamic scenario customization based on user input
- [ ] Implement difficulty progression for practice sessions
- [ ] Test scenario variety and educational effectiveness

### **Thursday: User Authentication & Basic UI**

#### **Morning (4 hours): Authentication System**
**Task 1: User Management** (2 hours)
- [ ] Implement NextAuth.js or similar authentication
- [ ] Configure Google and email authentication providers
- [ ] Create user profile schema and database tables
- [ ] Test signup, login, and profile management flows

**Task 2: Security Implementation** (2 hours)
- [ ] Configure session management and JWT tokens
- [ ] Implement password security and validation
- [ ] Set up CORS and security headers
- [ ] Test authentication security and edge cases

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): Basic User Interface**
**Task 3: Core UI Components** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create authentication pages (signup, login, profile)
- [ ] Build basic dashboard and navigation structure
- [ ] Implement responsive design foundation
- [ ] Test mobile-friendly interface basics

**Task 4: Learning Module UI** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create lesson content display components
- [ ] Build AI chat interface for practice sessions
- [ ] Implement progress tracking UI elements
- [ ] Test user flow from login to AI conversation

### **Friday: Integration & First Module**

#### **Morning (4 hours): System Integration**
**Task 1: End-to-End Flow** (2 hours)
- [ ] Connect authentication with AI conversation system
- [ ] Integrate RAG retrieval with conversation interface
- [ ] Test complete user journey: signup → lesson → practice
- [ ] Debug integration issues and optimize performance

**Task 2: First Learning Module** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create "The Five Losing Strategies" educational content
- [ ] Build corresponding AI practice scenarios
- [ ] Implement progress tracking for module completion
- [ ] Test educational effectiveness and user engagement

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): Testing & Documentation**
**Task 3: Quality Assurance** (2 hours)
- [ ] Comprehensive testing of all implemented features
- [ ] Performance optimization for AI response times
- [ ] Mobile responsiveness testing and fixes
- [ ] Security vulnerability assessment and fixes

**Task 4: Technical Documentation** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create Technical Specification Document (TSD)
- [ ] Document API endpoints and database schema
- [ ] Write deployment and environment setup guides
- [ ] Update project README with technical details

---

## 🔧 **Technical Specifications to Define**

### **RAG Architecture Details**
- **Vector Database**: Final choice and configuration
- **Embedding Model**: Specific model and parameters  
- **Chunk Size**: Optimal text chunking for Terry Real content
- **Retrieval Strategy**: Similarity threshold and result ranking
- **Context Assembly**: How retrieved content becomes AI context

### **AI Conversation System**
- **Model Selection**: Specific AI model and version
- **System Prompts**: Templates for RLT roleplay scenarios
- **Safety Filters**: Crisis detection and content moderation
- **Memory Management**: How conversations maintain context
- **Response Formatting**: Structured output for UI display

### **Database Schema**
```sql
-- Users table
-- Conversations table  
-- Learning_progress table
-- Content_chunks table (RAG)
-- Safety_incidents table
```

### **API Design**
```
POST /api/auth/signup
POST /api/auth/login  
GET /api/user/profile
POST /api/conversation/start
POST /api/conversation/message
GET /api/learning/progress
```

---

## 📊 **Week 2 Success Metrics**

### **Technical Milestones**
- [ ] **RAG System**: <2 second query response time, relevant content retrieval
- [ ] **AI Conversations**: Contextually appropriate responses, safety filtering active
- [ ] **Authentication**: Secure signup/login flow, user data protection  
- [ ] **Integration**: Complete user journey functional
- [ ] **Performance**: Mobile-responsive, <3 second page loads

### **Learning Effectiveness**
- [ ] **Content Quality**: AI demonstrates understanding of RLT concepts
- [ ] **Educational Value**: First module provides clear learning progression
- [ ] **User Experience**: Intuitive flow from education to practice
- [ ] **Safety**: Crisis detection working, appropriate resource referrals

### **Documentation & Process**
- [ ] **Technical Specification**: Complete implementation guide
- [ ] **Architecture Decisions**: Documented rationale for all major choices
- [ ] **Content Creation**: Material captured for Medium Article #2
- [ ] **Portfolio Ready**: Technical depth suitable for employer presentations

---

## 🚨 **Risk Mitigation & Contingency Plans**

### **Technical Risks**
**Risk**: RAG implementation more complex than expected  
**Mitigation**: Start with simple retrieval, enhance iteratively
**Contingency**: Use pre-built solutions (LangChain) if custom implementation delayed

**Risk**: AI conversation quality insufficient  
**Mitigation**: Extensive prompt engineering and testing with RLT scenarios
**Contingency**: Manual conversation examples as fallback, improve AI iteratively

**Risk**: Terry Real content processing challenges  
**Mitigation**: Manual extraction if automated processing fails
**Contingency**: Start with key concepts, expand content library gradually

### **Timeline Risks**
**Risk**: Week 2 scope too ambitious  
**Mitigation**: Prioritize core functionality, defer nice-to-have features
**Contingency**: Focus on AI conversation quality over UI polish

---

## 🎯 **Week 3 Preparation**

### **Deliverables for Week 3 Handoff**
- [ ] **Working RAG system** with Terry Real content
- [ ] **Basic AI conversation** with first learning module
- [ ] **User authentication** and profile management
- [ ] **Technical documentation** for continued development
- [ ] **Performance baseline** for Week 3 optimization

### **Week 3 Preview: User Experience & Learning Flow**
Based on Week 2 foundation, Week 3 will focus on:
- Complete learning progression (all 5 modules)
- Real-life conversation analysis feature  
- Progress tracking and gamification
- Mobile-responsive design polish
- User testing and feedback integration

---

*Week 2 Implementation Plan by Rafael Hidalgo | Ready for technical development phase*

**🚀 This plan balances ambitious technical goals with realistic MVP constraints, ensuring solid foundation for Week 3 UX development.**

Commit message:

Created corpus via terry real

docs/week-2-implementation-plan.md, after:

# Week 2 Implementation Plan - Knowledge Base & RAG Setup
## Rafael Hidalgo - Relational Life Practice Platform

**Planning Date**: May 24, 2025  
**Target Week**: Week 2 of 4-week MVP  
**Phase**: Core Development - RAG Implementation

---

## 🎯 **Week 2 Objectives**

### **Primary Deliverables**
1. **Working RAG System** with Terry Real content integration
2. **Basic AI Conversation Engine** for relationship skill practice
3. **Technical Architecture Documentation** (TSD - Technical Specification Document)
4. **User Authentication System** with secure onboarding flow
5. **First Learning Module** with integrated AI practice

### **Success Criteria**
- [ ] AI can discuss RLT concepts using Terry Real's methodology
- [ ] User can signup, access content, and practice with AI
- [ ] Technical architecture documented for future development
- [ ] Foundation ready for Week 3 UX development

---

## 📋 **Daily Task Breakdown**

### **Monday: RAG Foundation & Content Acquisition**

#### **Morning (4 hours): Terry Real Corpus Setup**
**Task 1: Content Acquisition** (2 hours)
- [x] Purchase digital copies of Terry Real's books:
  - ✅ "The New Rules of Marriage" → `terry-real-new-rules-of-marriage.pdf`
  - ✅ "Us: Getting Past You & Me to Build a More Loving Relationship" → `terry-real-us-getting-past-you-and-me.pdf`
  - ✅ "How Can I Get Through to You?: Closing the Intimacy Gap Between Men and Women" → `terry-real-how-can-i-get-through-to-you.pdf`
- [x] Research copyright compliance and fair use guidelines
- [x] Document legal approach and attribution strategy
- **Files Location**: `/docs/Research/source-materials/pdf books/`

**Task 2: Content Processing Plan** (2 hours)  
- [x] Analyze book structure and key concepts (3 books acquired)
- [ ] Create content extraction strategy (manual vs. OCR vs. API)
- [ ] Plan knowledge base organization and chunking approach
- [ ] Design RAG retrieval strategy for relationship scenarios
- **Ready for Upload**: All 3 PDF books organized and accessible

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): Technical Architecture**
**Task 3: Technology Stack Finalization** (2 hours)
- [ ] Choose vector database (Pinecone vs. Weaviate vs. Chroma)
- [ ] Select AI provider and model (OpenAI GPT-4 vs. Claude vs. local)
- [ ] Plan database schema for users, conversations, progress
- [ ] Document technology choices and rationale

**Task 4: Development Environment Setup** (2 hours)
- [ ] Initialize Next.js project with TypeScript
- [ ] Configure database connections and environment variables
- [ ] Set up development, staging, and production environments
- [ ] Create initial project structure and folder organization

### **Tuesday: RAG Implementation Core**

#### **Morning (4 hours): Vector Database & Embeddings**
**Task 1: Vector Database Setup** (2 hours)
- [ ] Configure chosen vector database service
- [ ] Create embedding pipeline for text content
- [ ] Test embedding generation and storage
- [ ] Verify retrieval functionality with sample queries

**Task 2: Content Ingestion Pipeline** (2 hours)
- [ ] Build content processing scripts for Terry Real books
- [ ] Create chunking strategy for optimal retrieval
- [ ] Generate embeddings for processed content
- [ ] Store content with metadata (source, chapter, concept)

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): RAG Query System**
**Task 3: Retrieval System** (2 hours)
- [ ] Implement semantic search functionality
- [ ] Test query relevance and ranking
- [ ] Optimize retrieval parameters for relationship content
- [ ] Create fallback strategies for unclear queries

**Task 4: Context Integration** (2 hours)
- [ ] Build context assembly for AI prompts
- [ ] Design prompt templates for RLT concepts
- [ ] Test context window optimization
- [ ] Validate response quality with sample scenarios

### **Wednesday: AI Conversation Engine**

#### **Morning (4 hours): Conversational AI Foundation**
**Task 1: AI Integration** (2 hours)
- [ ] Configure AI provider API (OpenAI/Claude)
- [ ] Implement conversation management system
- [ ] Create system prompts for RLT roleplay scenarios
- [ ] Test basic conversation flow and response quality

**Task 2: Safety & Ethics Layer** (2 hours)
- [ ] Implement crisis detection keywords and patterns
- [ ] Create safety response templates and resource referrals
- [ ] Build content filtering for inappropriate conversations
- [ ] Test safety protocols with edge case scenarios

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): Conversation Intelligence**
**Task 3: Context Management** (2 hours)
- [ ] Build conversation memory and context tracking
- [ ] Implement user preference learning
- [ ] Create conversation history storage and retrieval
- [ ] Test multi-turn conversation coherence

**Task 4: RLT Scenario Generation** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create scenario templates for relationship practice
- [ ] Build dynamic scenario customization based on user input
- [ ] Implement difficulty progression for practice sessions
- [ ] Test scenario variety and educational effectiveness

### **Thursday: User Authentication & Basic UI**

#### **Morning (4 hours): Authentication System**
**Task 1: User Management** (2 hours)
- [ ] Implement NextAuth.js or similar authentication
- [ ] Configure Google and email authentication providers
- [ ] Create user profile schema and database tables
- [ ] Test signup, login, and profile management flows

**Task 2: Security Implementation** (2 hours)
- [ ] Configure session management and JWT tokens
- [ ] Implement password security and validation
- [ ] Set up CORS and security headers
- [ ] Test authentication security and edge cases

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): Basic User Interface**
**Task 3: Core UI Components** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create authentication pages (signup, login, profile)
- [ ] Build basic dashboard and navigation structure
- [ ] Implement responsive design foundation
- [ ] Test mobile-friendly interface basics

**Task 4: Learning Module UI** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create lesson content display components
- [ ] Build AI chat interface for practice sessions
- [ ] Implement progress tracking UI elements
- [ ] Test user flow from login to AI conversation

### **Friday: Integration & First Module**

#### **Morning (4 hours): System Integration**
**Task 1: End-to-End Flow** (2 hours)
- [ ] Connect authentication with AI conversation system
- [ ] Integrate RAG retrieval with conversation interface
- [ ] Test complete user journey: signup → lesson → practice
- [ ] Debug integration issues and optimize performance

**Task 2: First Learning Module** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create "The Five Losing Strategies" educational content
- [ ] Build corresponding AI practice scenarios
- [ ] Implement progress tracking for module completion
- [ ] Test educational effectiveness and user engagement

#### **Afternoon (4 hours): Testing & Documentation**
**Task 3: Quality Assurance** (2 hours)
- [ ] Comprehensive testing of all implemented features
- [ ] Performance optimization for AI response times
- [ ] Mobile responsiveness testing and fixes
- [ ] Security vulnerability assessment and fixes

**Task 4: Technical Documentation** (2 hours)
- [ ] Create Technical Specification Document (TSD)
- [ ] Document API endpoints and database schema
- [ ] Write deployment and environment setup guides
- [ ] Update project README with technical details

---

## 🔧 **Technical Specifications to Define**

### **RAG Architecture Details**
- **Vector Database**: Final choice and configuration
- **Embedding Model**: Specific model and parameters  
- **Chunk Size**: Optimal text chunking for Terry Real content
- **Retrieval Strategy**: Similarity threshold and result ranking
- **Context Assembly**: How retrieved content becomes AI context

### **AI Conversation System**
- **Model Selection**: Specific AI model and version
- **System Prompts**: Templates for RLT roleplay scenarios
- **Safety Filters**: Crisis detection and content moderation
- **Memory Management**: How conversations maintain context
- **Response Formatting**: Structured output for UI display

### **Database Schema**
```sql
-- Users table
-- Conversations table  
-- Learning_progress table
-- Content_chunks table (RAG)
-- Safety_incidents table
```

### **API Design**
```
POST /api/auth/signup
POST /api/auth/login  
GET /api/user/profile
POST /api/conversation/start
POST /api/conversation/message
GET /api/learning/progress
```

---

## 📊 **Week 2 Success Metrics**

### **Technical Milestones**
- [ ] **RAG System**: <2 second query response time, relevant content retrieval
- [ ] **AI Conversations**: Contextually appropriate responses, safety filtering active
- [ ] **Authentication**: Secure signup/login flow, user data protection  
- [ ] **Integration**: Complete user journey functional
- [ ] **Performance**: Mobile-responsive, <3 second page loads

### **Learning Effectiveness**
- [ ] **Content Quality**: AI demonstrates understanding of RLT concepts
- [ ] **Educational Value**: First module provides clear learning progression
- [ ] **User Experience**: Intuitive flow from education to practice
- [ ] **Safety**: Crisis detection working, appropriate resource referrals

### **Documentation & Process**
- [ ] **Technical Specification**: Complete implementation guide
- [ ] **Architecture Decisions**: Documented rationale for all major choices
- [ ] **Content Creation**: Material captured for Medium Article #2
- [ ] **Portfolio Ready**: Technical depth suitable for employer presentations

---

## 🚨 **Risk Mitigation & Contingency Plans**

### **Technical Risks**
**Risk**: RAG implementation more complex than expected  
**Mitigation**: Start with simple retrieval, enhance iteratively
**Contingency**: Use pre-built solutions (LangChain) if custom implementation delayed

**Risk**: AI conversation quality insufficient  
**Mitigation**: Extensive prompt engineering and testing with RLT scenarios
**Contingency**: Manual conversation examples as fallback, improve AI iteratively

**Risk**: Terry Real content processing challenges  
**Mitigation**: Manual extraction if automated processing fails
**Contingency**: Start with key concepts, expand content library gradually

### **Timeline Risks**
**Risk**: Week 2 scope too ambitious  
**Mitigation**: Prioritize core functionality, defer nice-to-have features
**Contingency**: Focus on AI conversation quality over UI polish

---

## 🎯 **Week 3 Preparation**

### **Deliverables for Week 3 Handoff**
- [ ] **Working RAG system** with Terry Real content
- [ ] **Basic AI conversation** with first learning module
- [ ] **User authentication** and profile management
- [ ] **Technical documentation** for continued development
- [ ] **Performance baseline** for Week 3 optimization

### **Week 3 Preview: User Experience & Learning Flow**
Based on Week 2 foundation, Week 3 will focus on:
- Complete learning progression (all 5 modules)
- Real-life conversation analysis feature  
- Progress tracking and gamification
- Mobile-responsive design polish
- User testing and feedback integration

---

*Week 2 Implementation Plan by Rafael Hidalgo | Ready for technical development phase*

**🚀 This plan balances ambitious technical goals with realistic MVP constraints, ensuring solid foundation for Week 3 UX development.**
